Boomer Brigade

The Army was paying the old and terminally ill 50,000 dollars to die. 50,000 dollars to die a martyr's death. 50,000 dollars to redeem their wicked ways. 50,000 dollars to strap on a bomb and render some payback to the enemies of the State.


The Simpson Manor was a home for the old and terminally ill and all patients were, without a doubt, wounded in a very visible and plain way. They were also (and more notably) wounded in an invisible way. And so they spent their days like dancers who could never touch. They moved carefully and thoughtfully around each other, careful to never jostle or bump, each interaction intricate, rehearsed, and absolutely necessary. Don't talk to Frank about military service, don't talk to Emily about children, and the list went on. Regret was like a Savings Bond they all wished they could unload. They spent their days making loud noises to drown out the small noises. Somewhere, deep inside, a throbbing signal was being beat out on a drum like a love letter from a jungle savage, like a tiny smoke signal sent floating past the green canopy of the unconscious, like a whisper, like a scream - "Time is running out"

The poster was there in the morning. Just there. It had just appeared at some point after lights out. The big letters at the top could be easily read without glasses "Do you have regrets? Want a second chance?". THe letters below were blurry so Joe went to find his reading glasses. Breakfast is almost over, I should get some coffee, Joe thought. Nah, get the glasses, you can get Simone to make a pot later. "Do you have regrets, wanta  second chance?", what kind of question is that? Armed with glasses, he read the rest of the poster. This had to be a prank of some kind - some horrible prank. Am I being watched right now? How should I respond? the rest of the poster went on to say that some department of the army was taking terminally ill to run high-risk missions in Afghanistan or Iraq or some other forsaken shit-hole. Hah, I'd break a hip parachuting in, he thought. I wonder if I could even pass a PFT? nah, no way. What was it, 3 miles in under 22 minutes? 28 minutes? Joes mind started to spiral into that place where he reminisced on past accomplishments, past strength, conquests, adventures - STOP. The programmed interrupt in his brain went off. STOP. CONCENTRATE. focus on the present. What can I accomplish today? In youth, you can wake up and immediately set about pursuing whatever goal your mind has swirled up. Ambition, it's a killer. In your 20's, so many possibilities. Hell, in your 20's you can still dream of going to the olympics or banging 3 chicks all night long. As time goes on, that area under the graph gets smaller and smaller. At what point did your goals become a TV show and strong coffee? At what point do I just start shooting heroin and waiting for it all to end. At what point does the cancer break through that one final cell?  How frequently are cells produced? what is the rate of growth and decay? I used to know all this stuff. It used to be on the tip of my tongue...back when it was just useless errata, back when it was something to throw up on a white board to impress the undergrads...e times c times t?. e is constant and t is time. Finite. Joe bumps into a table. There's simone and michael. 

Simone: Hey, did you see...up front by the...
Michael: Uncle Sam needs us! 

Michael finished Simone's thought for her. She often meandered in and out of conversations, like a gear had slipped and thrown her into neutral for a second until she could get the clutch in and grind it back into gear. Michael usually just finished for her. 

Joe: Uncle Sam needs up?
Michael: did you see the poster up front?
Joe: yeah, I was just...
Michael: hah, they'll just put you in a room and then hit you with some of the newest nerve agent...see how long before you die...
Joe: or sprout a new head
Simone: oh that's terrible, you're just terrible

Michael and Joe enjoyed this game with Simone. In truth, she wasn't at all sensitive and enjoyed the black humor. Simone was a bit older than the two guys, maybe 10 years older (or so it seemed). She was in her mid 70's and had courageously refused chemo therapy 5 months prior. Not a day went by when she wondered if it was still too late to start, then she thought about her kids and how she wanted to be remembered - stoic and willing to go down with the ship with lips clenched tight. "I wonder if it's still too late", she thought. This was the thought that often interrupted her. This was the thought that slipped her into neutral in mid-sentence, before she could grind it back into gear and slowly resume her course.  

Michael: I'm actually going to call them, try to suss out what this is all about
Joe: yeah, you should
Michael: the military had better have changed quite a bit in the last 20 years, remember "hurry up and wait". HAHA! man, we'll be gone before they get us checked out of the armory
Simone: what?
Joe: old marine corps truth. If you had to be at the range at 0600, you could find yourself in formation marching to the armory as early as 0400. You'd get to the armory, and it would be, of course, closed, at which point someone would say "hurry up and wait" and we'd all grumble for 2 hours until the armorer showed up.
Michael: that's because the Marines don't trust their grunts to take care of their own guns
Joe: Weapons.
Michael: yeah, that too. 

This old military banter was never helpful, but they just couldn't help themselves. And, to top it off, there was some level of excitement, even giddiness at the thought of again being in the company of men. The table went quiet so that each of them could retreat into themselves for a second. Life was so much easier if there was just something on road in front of you (or, on the road behind, in Simone's case).

After breakfast, Michael revisited the Poster. There was a 1-800 number and then extension 5822. 5822? did the numbers start at 5000? How many lines were behind this one number? How many government pencil-pushers. What was the scam? What was the angle? Was this some way of just taking advantage of old folks again - A last-ditch-reverse-mortgage? Did they take out insurance on you, knowing that you would be dead soon? How was this even an option? How can you put something like this in a home for the terminally ill? Do they understand "terminally ill"? This was the government, perhaps there was some screw-up and the poster was supposed to go to Terminal L at the train station and someone screwed up? Who knows, but I'm not afraid to call. Michael finds the cell phone that he got as a present 3 years prior. After calling and entering extension 5822, a female voice comes on the line.

Operator: DOD Department of Acquisition, Staff Sargeant Chan speaking, can I have your name and Social
Michael: Hello there, I'm just calling for information
SSgt Chan: May I have your name
Michael: Michael Sanchez
SSgt Chan: And, may I enquire as to how you got this number?
Michael: there was a poster put up near our cafeteria, it said something about...
SSgt Chan: Are you in hospice?
Michael: Yes ma'am. A home for the terminally ill. A bit better than a standard...
SSgt Chan: And may I have your birthdate?
Michael: birthdate? Oh, yeah, April 24th, 1962
SSgt Chan: Prior service?
Michael: Oh...yes...Army. 1980 to 88. 
SSgt Chan: One moment, ah, yes, I see you here, final 4 of SSN are 3944
Michael: Yes Ma'am
SSgt Chan: Well Mr. Sanchez, I can send you more information or I can answer any questions that you have about our program here on the phone. May I have your mailing address?
Michael: We can just talk on the phone for now
SSgt Chan: OK, that's fine. Go ahead
Michael: Well, I mean...first of all, what's this all about? It reads like a prank. WHat could I possibly offer to the DOD? I mean, what's in it for both of us?
SSgt Chan: you read the poster, yes?
Michael: Yes Ma'am
SSgt Chan: So, our mission statement is to rapidly deploy our agents into enemy territory to carry out short missions involving reconissance and, ultimately, engagement. Upon completion, your family is awarded a life insurance payment and posthumous medals.
Michael: actual engagement with the enemy?
SSgt Chan: Correct
Michael: will there be backup, communications, air support...
SSgt Chan: No. To be blunt, you will deploy with a limited inventory of weapons. There will be no support outside of those who are deployed with you. You will have no information that will be of use to the enemy, in the event of capture.
Michael: is there a high probability of capture
SSgt Chan: No. In fact, we have had none captured thus far
Michael: So, this has been going on for a while?
SSgt Chan: Yes, we began this program 6 months ago and have had more than 300 deployments in that time. 
Michael: So, the "limited inventory of weapons"? What is that?
SSgt Chan: You're familiar with the Claymore mine?
Michael: Yes
SSgt Chan: You will be equipped in such a way that...
Michael: It'll be a suicide vest
SSGt Chan: Yes.


Chapter 2

The thing about regret is that it sneaks up on you. You lie to yourself like an addict - "I'll take him to the water park for his birthday after this business trip". There's always tomorrow. There's always that last thing to do before you do what you think you wanted to do. THe truth is - you do what you want to do, everything else is just a lie to yourself. Until, until, until that day when it's all clear, but you're too fuzzy or weak to do anything about it. How did I end up here? Writhing on the ground in pain or crushed under the weight of an attacker, powerless to help yourself (you always were). Perhaps the trick is to send your young self into the future to talk to your old self.

Self: what are your (our) regrets? How can I be better? Show me the way.
Old Self: I could tell you, but you'll just forget this conversation. You'll lie to yourself. You'll trick yourself into thinking that you have the pathway to happiness. You don't....I didnt'...I don't.
Self: but, what do you reget?
Old Self: I regret myself. I regret my ambition. I regret that I made myself the center of the universe when I was but a speck. I was like an ant, taken from my daily labors by an intruders bare foot, rushing out to the battlefield to crush the adversary, bowing my strong brown back into the largest pink bite that I could muster...and brushed away by a careless hand, powerless...leaving a small, pink welt that will quickly fade after I am gone.
Self: I think I can make the most money in Information Technology

Well, maybe that didn't go as well as it could have. THe problem is ourselves. Why does the Bible say that unless you become like a child, you can't inherit heaven? Is it because the child wakes to live in the moment? Tomorrow means nothing to the child? "1 more minute, and then we're going inside" is like an eternity. THey take what they have and enjoy it to the fullest. 

Chapter 3

The paperwork had come in the mail today. Joe and Michael were scrutinizing it over the cafeteria table. It had been 3 days since Michael spoke to the recruiter and Joe had called that same day as well. THe paperwork was, for a government position, amazingly small, just a few pages to fill out and sign. Once signed and returned, they would pick you up and transport you to your battalion HQ. From there, a short training period (nothing physical, they assured) and then off to the theater of war. "The Theater of War", that phrase should always be in caps. When Joe was 18, he dreamed of that place. He didn't know if he was courageous enough to come out on the other side of it, but he sure wanted to find out. Joe has played football and been through the grueling 2-a-days of the summer. He had been through Marine Corps bootcamp. He had been a boxer, a street fighter, a bar brawler. He had faced fear, but you can never be sure how you will react to it. In the face of extreme fear, the body (well, really, the small little pig-brain that truly runs the body) screams for a retreat. Every fiber of your body wants to run. There is so much adrenalin that, were you to do nothing, your body would shake for hours. Joe knew this first-hand, and yet he wanted to test himself in this way. He thought that it would make him a better man. He had never seen combat, and this had, he thought, always been one big regret. I don't know if this would truly be a test, he thought. For, as he already had one foot in the grave and one on a banana peel (his late grandpa's joke), blowing himself up wouldn't necessarily be the hardest thing he had done in his life. It would be a legacy, though, he argued to himself. A story that could be told to his grandkids. Thinking of his grandkids and, hence, his kids, the thought came to him that he should probably tell them his plans. Immediately, his mind started thinking of how he could spin the story...he was being recalled because of his exemplary military record. Well, that would be quickly seen through since the most notable thing about his service had been the large number of Page 11 entries for drunk and disorderly, assault and battery, spray-painting a penis on the Gunny's toyota hatchback, etc. The best that Joe could come up with was a story wherein he was re-enlisting to finally go to battle as it was one of his big regrets in life. He'd leave out the part where they were recruiting terminal old farts who, if captured, would surely perish before anyone had to spend any good money on a rescure mission. A small omission in the story. A brief embellishment, if you will. A chance to be of use for certain. A chance to give those he loved one last hug about the neck. A chance to alleve his family of having to watch him take one last breath on a ventilator. A clean cut. A sad goodbye and then the end. A last chance to be the hero. Truly the recruiting poster had been very carefully made. The chance at one last act, one final hero's scene, one final redemption. One good work to outweigh the pasty, empty life that he had lived thus far. Is there a heaven? I'll find out soon enough, Joe mused...

He finished his 2 pages of paperwork and looked up. Michael had just finished as well.

Joe: I guess this'll be one last shot, eh?
Michael: Yes

Simone hastily got up from her chair and walked off.

Joe: On box 44, it asked if we wanted to deploy with anyone that...
Michael: Yeah, I saw that. I put your name down.
Joe: Yeah, I put yours as well
Michael: Go out with a bang, hah. Well, it does answer one question for me, anyways
Joe: What's that
Michael: I wondered how it would be, you know, before I went...Who would be there? Who would already be gone before me? You know?
Joe: Yeah, same here. This way makes it almost more...
Michael: Manageable?
Joe: Yeah. I mean, now I can plan for it. I know.
Michael: Yeah

Michael was an engineer before he got sick. When the numbers had come in, he had actually built a statistical analysis of his chances of survival. They weren't good and his insurance didn't want to pay so he made the perfectly logical decision to die. He didn't want to leave his family with staggering debt. As it was, he had a nest egg to leave them. His wife had "moved on" sooner than he had wished (although, he had told her to move on). His kids (4 of them), were at that stage of life where they were grabbing as much as they could before their own retirement (best laid plans of mice and men). They loved each other, but rarely talked about it. Michael imagined that at least one of his kids would try to shake his hand when they parted for the last time. It wasn't their fault. It wasn't anyone's fault. It could be argued that there was no fault to be had on either side. However, Michael knew that he was missing something. While Joe's kids were spoiled and pampered, they always cried when they came to visit. Michael would watch and try to figure out if they were crying out of their own guilt or crying out of love. It seemed the latter, and it was a mystery as to how people came to that state. Mind you, he wanted to experience these things, but he just never had. Michael imagined that holidays and get-togethers at Joe's house were probably pretty draining. There was probably a lot of hugging, crying, perhaps a fist fight or two and then more hugging and crying. If I could do it all over again, what would I do? What would I change? Simone walked back to the table and seemed in a better mood.

Simone: One of my grandkids just called. She's coming by this afternoon.
Michael: Oh, really? Which one?
Simone: Jenny, my oldest grand. She's the one who just got pregnant a few months ago.
Joe: Millenial?
Simone: Yeah

Millenials got under Joe's skin, probably because he had 3 of them as children. He was in his early 30's before his first child was born and could never seem to connect with his 20-something children. Perhaps a lot of it was that he blamed himself for not being there more - their "failure" had him as the root cause. This never stopped him from blaming the entire generation for the way his kids had turned out.

Joe: Do yourself a favor and don't subscribe to their social media feeds.
Simone: I don't really even know what that is
Joe: That's a good thing.
Michael: do you follow your kids on social media Joe?
Joe: I do. Most of them I friended or followed as a way of keeping up with what my kids were doing in middle school and high school...it's sad how most of them have turned out.
Simone: why do you say that?
Joe: Half of the girls that were friends with my oldest have kids. No father, mind you, but they have kids. You see them on social media heading out to the clubs, partying, and then the next day asking for someone to help them get diapers. Look, if you post at 5 PM that your child is "your heart" and you would take a bullet for your child because you love them oh so much...and then, 2 hours later you're posting that you need a babysitter because your current boyfriend has tickets to some new club...well, you kind of invalidated your position.
Michael: You don't think they love their children?
Joe: I can't say that....I don't know. Maybe they would take a bullet for their child, but they won't stay home for their child. They won't keep using an old phone so they can afford more clothes for their child. They won't quit drinking or doing drugs for their child. They feel like someone else has to deal with the day-to-day dealings and they will be their for the big events. Go to the club and ask her "hey Suzy-whatever, your child has a 104 fever, can you leave the club and take care of your child?", and they'll tell you that their mom will have to do that. Ask them "will you give me that $20 in your pocket so that your child can have a lunch tomorrow?" and they'll say that the school district has to pay for that or whatever. It's like, the only way you could possibly get Suzy-whatever to leave the club is to tell her that someone has a literal gun pointed at her kids head...then she'd be like "OK, I got this" while putting down her mixed drink.
Michael: Is that how your kids are?
Joe: My kids think that someone owes them something. Perpetually. I just don't get it. I just don't understand. How does an entire generation feel like they are owed something? 

Joe knew, deep down, that there was a real flaw with his thought process. When he thought about his own life, his one regret was that he hadn't lived more "in the moment". He regretted that he had spent so much time on his own ambitions at the cost of others. When his kids only wanted to work 40 hours per week with no travel so that they could spend more time with their friends, they were actually closer to his ideal. What he complained about regarding his kids was for them to be more like him, which he had already proven was a bad way to go. He just couldn't help himself.

<f00 clean this shit up. also, 2 main characters Joe is very emotional and wears his emotions on his sleeve. Michael is more analytical and pragmatic. Simone is their conscience, she says what they are thinking. The two men go on their mission, but the one who is changed is Simone. the two men go to training in north dakota and then to afghanistan. the men land and Joe has a change of mind and takes off his vest and attempts to flee. Michael, unbeknownst to joe, follows after. Joe is about to be captured and then Michael comes in and activates his vest, killing them all. Maybe something about Samson...michael was strong until brought low by his illness, he "dies with the philistines". After they are dead, she takes her money, buys a ton of medicine and supplies, and heads down to south america to "spread love" >

What the U.S Army wasn't telling potential prospects was that only about 5.4% of those inserted actually fulfilled their mission. In truth, the operation was as much a Psychological Operation as it was a functional operation. Because of the Army's policy on not giving support or putting their "other" troops at risk, the terminally ill were dropped in by parachute. They were given 4 hours of training in the base gymnasium prior to shipping out. The army really (and this is sad) didn't really care if the operations were a success. A 5% success rate was more than successful for them.

Psychological Operations are, by definition, designed to elicit an emotional response to some stimulus. Imagine the look on the faces of these country farmers when it started raining old folks and infirmed, strapped with suicide vests. Many chose to wear American flags, or large crucifixes. One of the wilder combatants was 80-year-old Margaret Vangey of Steubenville Ohio, who jumped with nothing on but her vest, 14 crucifixes, and both legs wrapped in close to 8 pounds of uncooked bacon. 

The combatants landed willy nilly in fields, villages, school yards, etc. Broken legs and hips were a common reason for failure. Rod McGuire of Cincinnati Ohio was one of the first to land. He asked that everyone in his unit call him "Hot Rod" since that was his nickname in his youth. Most of his peers called him "Hot Wheel" (behind his back), as he had been confined to a wheel chair for the last 2 years. When Hot Rod landed in Afghanistan, he broke both collarbones and tore his bicep on the way down. Without the use of his arms, he couldn't deploy his payload. This was unfortunate for Hot Rod since he landed in a bull pasture. Sans legs and without the ability to use his arms, he still gamely tried to reach his objective by rolling. The vest detonated around the 3rd of 4th time he was hit by a big brown bull.

The message to the enemy was clear. We hate you so much that our old folks, cripples, and terminally ill are lining up for a crack at you. Ms. Nancy Truello from Las Vegas was infirmed mentally and physically. She had been a part of the 3rd mission - an attempt to blow up a mosque. The army sent in close to two dozen operatives for this mission. Ms. Nancy had been off her bi-polar and schizophrenia meds for the last 4 days, and day 5 was about to be a doozy. When she landed she thought, for some reason, that the mosque was a shelter for battered women. When she saw her male teammates headed for the mosque, she blocked their way, screaming that this was a safe place for women and they were not to enter. No one knows who first deployed their payload, but no one made it to the target.

"I wonder if it's still too late", Simone thought. This new thing that Joe and Michael were doing would leave Simone pretty stranded in the home. There weren't many folks here, as is, that weren't drugged out or near comatose. With Joe and MIchael gone, she'd be pretty much on her own.

Simone: I think the Army is doing things backwards
Joe: What do you mean?
Simone: well, consider this. what is the natural reaction to a hateful act? What happens when or if you are sent to battle and kill? What happens to the son or daughter of the person that you killed? What happens to the father or mother of a slain child?
Joe: I wouldn't kill a child
Simone: No, I'm not saying you would...but, accidents do happen right?
Michael: Collateral damange
Simone: What?
Michael: that's what they call it. Collateral damange. Where you take out a target but there is some damage to innocent bystanders nearby. Collateral Damage
Simone: Oh, that's just horrible...but, anyway, so, what was I saying
Joe: mother of a slain child
Simone: Oh, right, so...the act of killing someone has ripples, right? that person has other people that loved him or her, and those people are now inclined to what? to embrace the US? To embrace democracy? no, they are inclined to fight for justice for their child
Joe: Justice? is it justice for them to bomb our restaurants where children are?
Simone: No, of course not. I'm saying that it's wrong on either side. And, if you just keep reacting to violence with violence, then ... what's that saying...if everyone took an eye for an eye, the whole world would be blind?
Michael: well, technically, in a group of S individuals, if each took an eye for an eye, there should still be one person with vision at the end.
Joe: HA! 
Simone: well, you see my point
Michael: I do
Joe: Yeah...but, what do you do? Just let people walk all over you?
Simone: I mean, no...but, to seek out revenge...what am I trying to say...ok, what if, instead of bombing those who bomb us...what if, we gave aid to those who bomb us? What if ...
Joe: you're not going all bleeding heart liberal on us, are you?
Simone: no, no...I mean, I've just been thinking about it quite a bit since you two signed up...it just seems like it will never end...I don't know, it's all so sad...and to lose you two to it...
Joe: yeah, I'm sorry. I was just kidding with you.
Simone: I mean, how did you come to this decision
Joe: I just wanted to do something good before I left. Something unselfish.
Simone: I just wish there was a better way. A way to square things up without having to escalate things...without having to cause more of a reaction, I guess...I don't know what I'm saying really...it's just...it's just such a waste on both sides
Michael: Thoreau. What was that line about privates and colonels marching off to war against their conscience. I understand what you're saying, I think.
Simone: what if you went to Afghanistan and gave out medication to children, immunizations
Michael: No one is paying us to do that
Simone: Well, who would know?
Michael: True, true.
Joe: we'd just get shot down with a boatload of amoxicillin
Simone: haha, that's pretty funny to visualize...well, not really, but kinda
Joe: yeah
Simone: I know it's weird sounding...it just occurred to me...I don't know what the answer is...maybe we're just doomed either way

Simone was trying hard to wrap her head around the problem. Logically, it seemed that the answer was actually to not retaliate against the enemy. But, that couldn't be right. You should defend against the enemy, for sure. But, where is that line? When do you stop retaliating but still defend...is that what martyrdom was for? what was that verse from the Bible - "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee". What was that all about? What will I do after they leave, she thought? I wonder if it's still too late? That one perplexing thought kept coming back. That instinct to live above all else. When Simone was a child, she had fallen into some deep water at the lake. One moment, she was basking in the sun on the dock and the next, the sharp splash of ice cold water, a gulp of it, and every fiber in her body was as alive and squirming as the end of an earthworm just dug from the ground. She remembered seeing, through the dark water, plants and fish floating by, and then a pair of white legs. She locked on to the ankles. She knew it was her father, but she had to survive, she had to survive. She grasped those ankles and pulled as hard as she could. The ankles kicked and tried to dislodge her, one foot struck her in the face, but she kept grasping. At some point, she woke up, back in the womb of the sun. She remembered that moment for all her life. She remembered how she would have killed anyone or anything to get back to the surface. She was ashamed of it, but she knew it lurked inside of her, and it was trying to make a comeback now. Is it still too late? 


Chapter next

2 days until Michael and Joe are picked up for transport to an unknown base somewhere. well, unknown to the men and to the general public - known to the Turtle Mountain tribe of the Chippewa Nation, who had to give up their gymnasium for the good of the Republic. No one in the tribe knew for certain what happened in that gymnasium, but the rumors were far more interesting than what was actually going on. Simone watched the 2 men eating their dinner. Only 1 more dinner tomorrow night, and they'll be gone the day after, she thought. Simone knew the men better than they thought. They saw her as a fun old gal who wasn't put off by their sometimes-crude humor or false bravado. 

Simone had had two male cats when she was a child. She would lay in bed and hear the rucus on the front porch when some other cat would try to poach some food. When rocco was involved, there was a lot of hissing and mewling, followed by a short scrabble, followed by a lot more hissing and mewling. If she were to look at the window, she would almost certainly see the stray cat and rocco on opposite ends of the porch, crouched under or behind some barricade, doing their level best to scare the other cat off. When Floyd, her other cat, was involved with a stray cat, it would sound like someone was banging the porch with a 12-pound sledge hammer. You could feel the vibrations in the floor. If she were to look out the window, she would more than likely see Floyd on top of another cat. Floyd didn't paw around and slap like Rocco. Floyd just ran straight in and got the other cat in a death grip. He fought more with his mouth than with his feet. There was one morning when she had walked out on the porch and there was a fine layer of cat hair all over the porch, much of it stuck in dark blood. Floyd's ears were like a wrestlers. When you scratched his ears, it was like a solid piece of cartilage. At some point before Simone had rescued Floyd, he had been in an altercation that took one of his eyes and Simone often wondered if that impaired his depth perception and the only way that he could fight was to close distance, find the soft flesh, and hang on until it pulled itself free in one bloody, ragged tear. There was something wrong with his meow as well. He didn't "meow" unless he was really hungry (only in the winter when hunting was hard for a cat) and when he did meow, it sounded more like a bird chirping. Maybe something had happened to his throat when he was younger? Who knows. Floyd would only meow once or twice, then he would bite your foot - usually right above the boot line, right on the achilles tendon. His bites hurt, but Simone never swatted at him or pushed him away. Floyd wouldn't ask unless it was absolutely necessary. She always went and got Floyd some food when he meowed or bit. She just had a feeling that Floyd was the kind of cat that would not demean himself by asking for help twice. If you ignored him, he was just gonna go off into the woods and try to find some game, or a new home, or whatever. Rocco was the sweeter cat. Floyd didn't even like to be held; however, she saved all of her treats for Floyd. When dad brought home fried chicken, she would take the wing bones and put them in a paper towel. After dinner, she would go out and find Floyd and give him 3 or 4 of the bones with the most meat on them, then she'd sit back and listen to him CRACK those bones with his teeth. The most amazing thing about Floyd was his knack for catching and killing snakes. If Rocco was killing a snake, he'd swat at it for an hour or more..sometimes picking it up and dragging it a foot or so, and then jumping back before the snake could strike. Floyd would just latch on to the tail with his mouth. He would never release that snake. One of them was going to die. He would avoid the snake bite by yanking on the end of the snake (the end that he was eating). Simone would sit and watch until the final bits of the snakes head were fully in Floyd's mouth, then she would go and get him some benadryl (just in case).

Joe: No second thoughts yet, eh?
Michael: Nope
Simone: I do
Joe: You don't get a vote
Simone: I always get my vote

She smiled at this. It was an inside joke. The two men often complained that Simone and her "lists" were running their life. She was the list-maker and the administrator who had kept them going from one mundane task to another mundane task for as long as they had known each other. Simone made them all go on the bus trips into town (Senior Discount day at the Dollar General). Simone was the only senior of the 3 of them; however, no one at the DG ever even asked for an ID and they always got their discount. One of the perks of being on death's doorstep. 

Joe: You could come along? THey take women-folk too.
Simone: ha, no. I don't have a lot of time left, but it's more than you two.
Joe: it's not like I have a lot of stuff here, but we were told one change of clothes was all that we would need. I've got the Goodwill folks coming out to take away my extra stuff. If you want any of it Simone, it's yours.
Simone: No. But thank you. By the way, what are you doing with your meds?
Joe: We had to give a full list of our meds to the Army. Apparently, they are going to provide them for us
Michael: That's what they said
Simone: do they give you uniforms or something?
Michael: No. We go in with our civilian clothes
Simone: What is the temperature like there? 
Joe: They told me to bring layers. I've heard it gets real cold at night...not sure, I've never been.
Simone: So, feel free to tell me to mind my own business but, did you ever go to war when you were younger?
Joe: No, I didn't. I was a peace-time Marine
Simone: not many Marines can say that, I guess
Joe: Well, the only marines around in 1980 who had a combat badge were the old Vietnam guys. They walked on water in the Corps. Between Vietnam and the first Gulf war was a pretty long stretch...I mean, yeah, you had the Beirut bombing in there, some work in Panama I think...but, no real war for a few decades there.
Simone: if only
Joe: yeah, it's been non-stop since the first gulf war. I think we'll just perpetually be at war
Simone: Well, that whole "repay hate with hate" thing we were talking about
Joe: Ha, yeah, I guess
Simone: Michael, you haven't said much
Michael: well, I mean, not much to say, right?
Simone: I guess
Michael: If I don't go in 2 days, the government could sue me. Drag me into years of litigation.
Simone: Ha, you're funny
Joe: I'm dead set on it. 
Simone: I still, in all honesty, don't understand why you two would do this? Is it just a guy thing?
Joe: could be, I dunno. 

That night they went out to see a movie. Simone was still a bit shaky on her feet since the partial mastectomy. The geometry of her body was changed and it made her tip when she tried to walk. The men walked on either side of her and she looped their arms as they went in. It was one of those movies that you didn't really have to pay attention to. Joe went out and got them snacks before the movie started and they sat in silence through the entire film. 




On the day before shipping out, the men spent the day with family. Joe's kids mostly worked in food services. His oldest, Amber, managed a restaurant/bar. Tyler and Ashley worked at a local Olive Garden as servers. When Joe had given them the news, they had not taken it very well. Luckily, today was a Tuesday and all 3 of his kids were off. When the taxi pulled up to his home, it didn't look like what he thought it would look like. Besides the obvious lack of upkeep (hedges untrimmed, grass scraggly and brown, leaves from the last fall still on the ground, etc.), it just didn't seem like his home. He double-checked the address before walking up the steps. Before he got halfway up, Ashley came out to offer him a hand with the rails. 

Joe: Hey Ash, I've got it...still got some strength in these legs
Ashley: well, be careful, the wood is dry-rotting on the rail and Tyler keeps promising to fix it but hasn't yet

Joe rubbed his hand over the rail. The paint was chipping off and there were big grooves and pits in the wood

Probably termintes Joe thought, I should call Roy (his pest guy) and get this treated. Then he thought, what's the point? Joe walked in, followed by Ashley. THe front door handle was loose and there was a big crack on the door frame where it looked like someone had tried to slam the door shut with the deadbolt out. It's going to hell in a handbasket, Joe thought. Tyler was sitting at the dining room table. There had to be at least 8 bowls on the table, each with a spoon in them, a few empty boxes of cereal, some ramen soup bowls, and tons of empty beer bottles. The carpet was a special kind of dirty. Not only was it littered with trash, but the formerly-white carpet had taken on a shade of black. The carpet looked like if you were barefoot and walked through it, you would leave dirty footprints whenever you stepped off the carpet and into a clean area. Not that it was an issue in this house, as the entire house looked dirty. Under normal circumstances, this would ahve set Joe off and the kids would have all blamed the others for not doing their part. Joe would have ended up cleaning the house and giving them a tongue lashing on the value of a house, keeping it in good order, etc. He would have threatened to put in cameras so that he could watch them from the home and they would have argued back with him about them being grown adults, and "if you don't want mehere just kick us out on the street. Do you want to evict your grand-daughter?". The anger in Joe's home came and went quickly. After cleaning the house, he would typically buy everyone dinner and then break out the 100-dollar-bills that he had stashed in his sock before coming over. Everyone would get a "hunni" and they would hug and kiss him. "Go tell your pawpaw goodbye" the 2 girls would tell their children, and a typical Daddy/PawPaw visit would be over. This visit would be different. Joe just wished they had bothered to clean up before he came over. 

Tyler: Hey dad
Joe: Hey Ty. How's things?
Tyler: same old. 
Joe, taking a seat at the table: Where's Amber?
Tyler: Abel's 2-year doctor appointment
Joe: Ah
Ashley: do you want something to drink daddy?
Joe: Nah, I'm OK. I have a lot of paperwork to give you guys
Tyler: what for?
Joe: It's mostly insurance stuff. All of my stuff is already covered in the will, but this is a new life insurance policy. The Army pays for it. It's just the minimum 50,000 but it should help out

There was no response to this. Ashley went and retrieved her daughter, Candace. "Where's PawPaw?" she asked the baby while trying to hand her over to Joe. The baby buried her head into her mother's chest and kicked her feet. When Ashley tried to hand over over, she held on to her mother tight and turned her head away from Joe. Joe saw his grands once a week, but a week is an eternity for little kids and, to Candace, Joe was a stranger. Joe took his granddaughter and moved her to his lap. She had just had her first birthday and was walking now. Joe was glad that she was finally walking, who knows how many diseases lurked on the floors of this house. While they were all figuring out how to talk to each other, Joe distracted himself by looking at the "Wall of Fame" - a wall of picture frames. Each frame was dedicated to one family member. Joe's picture frame was mostly in black-and-white, pictures of him smiling from the top of a tree or playing on the floor with his german shepherd. Spike was his first german shepherd and he had loved Spike. Spike loved to drive around in the back of his dad's pickup truck and frisbees. Spike loved frisbees. Spike had died early (Parvo) and Joe remembered crying for days and refusing to leave his room. Joe had cried again when a neighborhood dog had dug up Spike in the yard. Half of him was eaten away, but you could still tell it was Spike. Dad had re-filled the grave and put a wheelbarrow over the top until he could get a pile of rocks. Joe had wanted to kill the neighborhood dog, he was so angry. There was a picture frame of Joe and Kristen (his late wife). This wasn't how it was supposed to be, he thought. The baby was crying, so Joe bounced her on his knee. The butt of her onesie was black. Joe picked up one of her cute little feet, it was black on the bottom and had dirt up under the nails. Same with her fingers. Poor little thing. I could square things away for you if I was gonna be here longer, Joe thought. The front door opened and Amber came in with Abel in one arm, a diaper bag and keys in the other hand. She kicked the door shut with her foot and all the pictures on the wall jumped. 

Joe: Hey Amber
Amber: Hey daddy
Abel: Chinese!
Joe: Oh, so he remembers, hah
Amber: Yep, every time we say "Where's PawPaw?" he says "Chinese!" and tries to find his paw patrol plate
Joe: I can order some Chinese if you want

A hive of activity broke out. Amber took down everyone's order on a piece of paper. 

Amber: What do you want dad?
Joe: Sesame chicken I guess. Oh, and 2 egg rolls

Once the list was complete, Joe called in the order and paid with his credit card. This was a weekly ritual for them. Had the kids ever paid for the meal?, Joe thought. No was the answer. I probably spoiled them, Joe thought. 

Tyler: so, dad was just telling us that he has another 50k insurance policy
Amber: oh yeah? well, me and Abel could use it...although, I hate that this is how we're getting it
Tyler: You and Abel? You're on welfare and food stamps. I have to pay for my own insurance.
Joe: don't fight over it. There's plenty in the will as well.
Amber: I don't see why Tyler would get anything. He's let this house get trashed
Tyler: Oh, so that's my responsibility? I have a job
Amber: It's not my fault that I lost my job and can't get one with a 2-year-old child
Tyler: well, you're here all day, you could clean up
Amber: YOU SIT IN YOUR ROOM PLAYING LEAGUE OF LEGENDS ALL DAY!
Tyler: but, I have a job at least
Ashley: Stop! Is this how we're going to spend our last day with dad?

Ashley started crying. She was the baby of the group and was probably the most spoiled of the kids. Of all his kids, Ashley was probably his favorite, although Joe wouldn't ever publically admit this. Amber started crying as well and Tyler became very intent on his phone. When Ashley was about 2 or 3 years old, she had gotten deathly ill. Joe had cancelled a week of travel and stayed at home to help. For a week, he had kept a log of medicine that Ash was taking. He had taken over responsibility from his frazzled wife. He had a white board in the kitchen, and on it he had a table of medicines and times, amount of pedialyte that Ashley had consumed, number of poopy diapers, etc. He had sat for hours with the TV on mute, holding the child monitor and watching her. When she was too still for a while, he would creep in with a tiny light and watch her chest to stomach to see if it was rising. If he didn't see any movement, he'd lightly place his hand on her back or chest and wait for her to breathe. He and his wife had fought like dogs that whole week. When Ash was better, he had gone back out on the road. 

Amber: dad, can you help me mount a TV in my room?
Joe: sure, let me grab a drill and my socket set. Is it still in the same place?
Tyler: I may have had to borrow it. Check in my closet.

Joe retrieved the tools and mounted the TV in Amber's room. WHen he returned back downstairs, the Chinese food had arrived and the kids were already eating. The 2 grands were in high chairs, eating some fried rice and throwing the green peas and other vegetables on the floor. Someone had cleared off the table, so Joe took a seat and grabbed his food.

Joe: got it up. The cord didn't reach the outlet, so I mounted a surge protector halfway up the wall. Be sure the kids don't get into it.
Amber: I've got a table that I can put under the TV to keep them out
Joe: OK
Ashley: What time do you leave tomorrow daddy?
Joe: some time in the morning
Ashley: do you want us to be there with you?
Joe: No...probably you guys have gotta work and take care of babies...
Tyler: NOt amber

The rest of the night went pretty much like the start of the night. The kids bickered back and forth. At 9 or 10 PM, the girls put their kids down to bed and started arguing over who had to stay home to watch the babies. Eventually some money changed hands and Tyler agreed to "keep an ear out" and the girls started getting ready to go out for the night. Who goes out to party on a Tuesday night?, Joe thought. So this is their life. Abel and Candace spend the day in daycare, come home for a few hours with their moms. It's a tough scrabble for them to get any real time with their mothers. How many baths do they get per week? THey didn't get one tonight, and they were filthy. What do they eat when I'm not here? Tyler was watching some movie from the DVR after complaining for 10 minutes on how someone had been deleting his saved shows. The girls wandered in and out in various stages of dress. High heels were swapped out for leather boots which were later swapped out for different shoes. Hair straighteners and blow dryers were working overtime tonight. After an hour or so, the girls came out and took a seat on the sofa with Joe. They told Joe that they didn't have to go out if he didn't want them to. He assured them that they were fine and that he may still be there when they came back.  the girls ducked out the door and two sets of headlights backed out of the driveway. 

Joe: Tyler
Tyler: Yeah
Joe: do they go out every night
Tyler: just about
Joe: and leave the babies here?
Tyler: Yep
Joe: Do the babies ever see their dads?
Tyler: You know Carl is in prison, right?
Joe: No, I didn't know that. What for?
Tyler: Possession with intent to distribute. He won't be out for at least another 7 years
Joe: Sad. Candace has to grow up without a dad
Tyler: Yeah. She calls me "dada" sometimes
Joe: Sad. What about Sammy?
Tyler: Nah, he gets Abel maybe once a month
Joe: Candace is a girl, she'll do better than Abel. Abel will need a dad
Tyler: I don't see that happening any time soon
Joe: that's just horrible.


after a minute, Joe continued

Joe: Tyler?
Tyler: yeah
Joe: can you make sure they get a fair shake? 
Tyler: who's that?
Joe: Abel and Candace. Can you make sure they get their fair share? Make sure they are provided for. Sell this house soon. Get if fixed up. It's a sellers market right now. You can get 350 or 400k out of it. Put some away for the babies. Go talk to Jimmy, my accountant. He can help you out.
Tyler: OK dad
Joe: are you good?
Tyler: Yeah, dad.
Joe: I wasn't there for you guys a lot when you were kids
Tyler: that's understandable. mom didn't have a job and you had to provide
Joe: yeah...yeah...but, I feel like
Tyler: what?
Joe: I feel like I shoulda been there more

Joe was getting emotinoal and starting to cry a little. Tyler turned back to the TV.

Joe: Earlier you said that you needed some money?
Tyler: well, my truck needs some work
Joe: I'll cut you a check before I go. remind me.
Tyler: OK
Joe: 5 thousand, will that cover it
Tyler: oh yeah, that's plenty. Thanks dad.
Joe: You know I've put you down as executor of the will, right?
Tyler: Yeah
Joe: just divide everything equally. Make sure everyone gets their fair share
Tyler: OK
Joe: this insurance policy, I think I'm gonna leave it to someone else. I mean, I think there is plenty here. You can sell off my tools. Sell the Lexus too.
Tyler: where is that?
Joe; it's in the storage place. It's all in the will. Sell all my guns too, unless you want some. Amber wanted my glock, but it's no good to have that around the babies, you know?
Tyler: yeah, she's pretty irresponsible. Abel got into her purse the other night and found her stash of pills
Joe: I don't even wanna know
Tyler: yeah
Joe: you know I love you and your sisters and those grandbabies, right?
Tyler: yeah, I know dad
Joe: I hate to leave you like this. This was never what me and your mom had planned
Tyler: yeah, I know
Joe: It's just all turned out...bad...

Joe took one last tour through the house. He crept into each of his grandkids rooms and sat watching them for a minute. He wished there was something he could leave them that they would remember, but they would never remember him. He couldn't help them. His kids would blow through the money fast and these babies would have to scrape for whta they got. He had that feeling like when you stumble off the top step of a staircase and know that you're gonna land and land hard, and there is not a damn thing you can do about it. There is not any special contortion that you can put your body into that can prevent the inevitable. You screwed up and you're about to pay for it. 

Joe came back downstairs. Tyler paused his movie and stood up. The moment was here. He had cheated his way out of the moment with his daughters when he lied and said that he might be there when they came back. The girls had known this, so it had been a mutual agreement to not part on an emotional note. 

Joe: I'm heading out buddy. I left that check on the frig
Tyler: Ok
Joe: I love you

Tyler moved forward and hugged his dad hard. Joe cried and Tyler cried. THey stayed like that for a while. Tyler's hair was long and greasy and smelled like weed. Joe cried even harder. The cab beeped it's horn out front. Joe remembered saying "goodbye" like 3 or 4 times. When he walked out the door, the headlights from the cab were blurred. He almost tripped on the last step before making his way into the cab. His last memory of his house would be a blurry Tyler standing on the front porch, waving until he couldn't see him any more.

Chapter Next

Michael had 4 children. James was 34, the oldest and a professor of English Literature. Next came Mark (31, and a process control engineer) then Angie (30, and a school teacher) and finally Blake (27, and a mechanic). Michael was meeting them at his Lawyer's office to go over all his final arrangements. From there they had planned to go to the lake house and grill out. The Lawyer's visit was over now. Every 'i' had been dotted and 't' crossed. Michael and his kids had all sat around the table, passing each form around that had to be signed or initialed. Every asset that Michael had owned was now the property of one of his kids. They were now sitting around a fire pit that Michael had built many years ago, looking down on the lake while the grill was smoking behind them. Michael remembered building this so many years ago. James and Mark were old enough to help, so he had hooked a wagon up to his tractor and drove down by the water to find the big rocks. When James or Mark would find one and struggle to bring it into the wagon, Michael remembered praising each of them for their strength. At one point, Mark, the younger brother, had gotten tired of working and wanted to go back inside and take off his boots...Michael found him loosening the laces and had scolded him. Mark had stood next to his dad, scolding his younger brother as well. The sun had been strong that day. He remembered taking the two boys into the house through the basement, after the rocks had been brought up, the salty sweat dried on the back of their necks.  "Take off your boots here in the mud room", Michael had instructed them. THey knew where to put their work boots up and how to take their dirty clothers to the washer before heading upstairs in their skivvies. Karen would have had a good dinner going and he would have put the 2 boys in the big tub while he showered in the standup. 

Blake was working the grill today. The sun was also strong today. It was one of those fall days when the leaves were all changing but it was still warm enough during the day to wear shorts and a T-shirt. Tonight, it would be cool enough to start a bonfire. Blake was getting the lake house. His job was the closest to the lake house and Blake was good at keeping the day-to-day repairs in check. "Medium rare, dad?", Blake asked. Yes sir, medium rare. "Is that thing even safe for kids anymore?", Angie asked. Michael had been staring at the old swingset and slide. He got up and walked over to it. Not bad, for 30 years old, Michael thought. THe slide was pointed towards the lake, so that the kids could see down to the dock when they were at the top. Putting a roof on it was a good idea, Michael thought. The green tin roof was littered with leaves, but they'd fix themselves with the next rain. Under each of the 3 swings was a deep pile of leaves. Why was the baby swing still up there?, he thought. That little blue swing had used to be a booster seat. Michael had turned it into a swing for the babies so many years ago. It looked out of place, bright blue and yellow. 

After dinner Michael corralled all the kids in. Hey guys, bring it in for a sec, Michael called. They all gathered around the warmth of the fire pit. Hey guys, I don't really know what to say in this situation. I want to start by saying how proud I am of each of you. You all are successful but, more than that, you're just good people. You've turned into adults that your mom would be so proud of.  

<f00 this is all fucked up..fix it later or delete it> 

T-1 <f00 Michael and Joe process their day at dinner with Simone. Joe tells her that he's left his insurance to her>

T
The reservation at Turtle Hill ND was a hub of activity on processing days. The turnaround on a batch of recruits was 5 days. 5 working days. Joe and Michael's group arrived on a Tuesday evening, so the goal was for them to be out the door on Wednesday morning. THe term "barracks" could be loosely used to describe the gymansium. Another term might be "3rd world prison". Beds were separated by cube. It was like someone had taken a floor of corporate cubicles and moved them into one side of the gym. Rods stretched above each cube in a pyramid configuration and were covered by what looked like canvas or plastic. The colors were all different, so the gymnasium was like a 3-year-olds bestest ever dream. Heavy electrical cables were routed across the tops of these pyramids, dropping electricity into cubes that required IV drip bags or electric beds. In Joe and Michaels respective cubes, there was just a bed, a desk, 2 outlets, and enough floor space to drop their single suitcase. THe men had cubes right next to each other in the 3rd row of cubes. Joe remembered which was his cube by the royal purple cover on it. It was the only cube covered in Purple and, hence, easy to find. 

Joe: What in the world are we supposed to do on Saturday and Sunday? I didn't see crap on the bus ride in
Michael: I saw a flea market
Joe: I saw what looked like a hoarder being evicted by the Sheriff
Michael: ha. well, it's not like we need anything
Joe: No, but it would be nice to get a good meal while we're here
Michael: True

The processing and training was at a bare minimum. The Army had determined that there would be no physical training or testing whatsover. Their logic being that, if the infirmed could survive a trip to Turtle Hill, ND, they were sufficiently ample to drop into a combat zone and kill themselves. Most of the training (if you could call it that) was around the actual methods that would be required to be inserted into the war zone and to blow themselves up. Terrain maps, basics of parachuting which, in all honesty, was more for the mental well being of the troops. The plane would come in at low altitude and spray the terminally ill across the landscape like a crop duster. Parachutes would be auto-deployed when they were pushed from the plane. At such a low altitude, steering never really would come into play. It was a game of numbers. If the Army needed 2 detonations on a target, they would drop in 20. So, training was at a minimum. If you could fall and then limp or crawl 100 feet and then pump a handle 2 times, you were good to go. Most of the 5 days was spent on paperwork and psychological testing. A family lawsuit a few months prior had seen to the introduction of psychological competence testing. A certain Mr. Corliss of Rapid Falls had been dropped into Fallujah and perished (as expected). His family had claimed that he was not of a sound mind to make such a decision, blah, blah, and blah. The issue was now in the legal system. 

Joe (reading): "Day 1, MBAT with Dr. Levi - 9AM to 11 AM. Lunch 11 AM to 1 PM. MBAT with Dr. Levi - 1 PM to 4 PM", I wonder what is an MBAT
Micheal: No idea
Joe: headshrink stuff for sure
Michael: I can't believe this tent city is gonna be our last home on earth
Joe: You're not kidding. Literally, my first barracks in the COrps was better than this
Michael: Yeah, and all these posters saying no noise after lights out
Joe: haha. Right. We're not teenagers and we're way past the stage of hooking up
Micheal: although that Ms. Teasley in our group seemed like a catch
Joe: HA! I thought you were talking a bit much with her. What's her deal?
Michael: Just a lonely widow. 62 years old, terminal cancer, and a desire to cement her decision
Joe: cement her decision?
Michael: yeah, she was pretty well off and wanted to be sure that her kids got all the money. She was worried they were gonna try to force her to blow money on extended hospice or maybe even new cancer treatments
Joe: shoot, if I had the money to blow, I'd be doing that myself
Michael: she saw this as a way of heading off any family interference in her decision
Joe: well, hey, don't let me stand in your way if you've got thoughts of canoodling these last 7 days away with Ms. Teasley
Michael: haha. No. no thoughts like that
Joe: yeah, she seemed like a nice lady though

The group of 38 individuals was a motely crew. Joe and Michael had met most of them while they were waiting to be given their "room" assignments. Some were pretty bad off. One guy was rolling his wheelchair around with an IV pole hooked to it. Every few hours, someone would come over and ask him his pain level. He'd say "10" and they'd shoot some liquid into his IV and he'd sit quietly for some time. Joe tried not to laugh when he thought of what it was gonna look like before they dropped in. "Mr. So-and-so, what is your pain level, we'll be at the LZ in 3 minutes". "Pain level 10". OK, here's your shot. Good luck. And then Mr So-and-so would be out the door, along with his IV and wheel chair. Or, would they cut the IV first, remove him from his chair, and send him out the door dangling...with his severed IP tubing flapping in the wind...who knows, Joe thought. What a sight that will be. I will see things with these eyes that have never been seen before. 

Despite the accomodations, both men had a good night's sleep. Joe wondered if they had slipped something into the evening meal. The first 3 days flew by. The days weren't hectic or strenuous, but the men found themselves exhausted at night. Cell phones or any sort of recording devices were prohibited in the training center, so the group of trainees didn't get any outside contact. After the final signing of the contract on Friday night, there was now no way to back out. Each night, after dinner, there was a movie showing. They even had a snack bar set up like a real movie theater. Another adjustment was wearing the government-issued uniforms each day. To Joe, they looked like prison garb. They weren't like an Armed Forces uniform, instead it was a pair of khakis with a blue stripe on each leg. THe shirt was a standard, light blue button-down shirt like you would find for 8 bucks at K mart. A khaki belt and black shoes rounded out the uniform. Each person had a name tag - a cheap stick-on "Helly My Name Is ______" name tag. 

Joe had taken up smoking again, and it was a good thing. On friday, Michael joined him outside after lunch. Most of the other trainees were taking a nap.

Michael: You doing OK?
Joe: Yeah, it's OK. I can't take too much of all that "rah rah" talk though
Micheal: yeah?
Joe: Yeah, we've already signed up. You don't need to sell me on anything. And, these uniforms, they suck. 
Michael: well, you're missing some of yours
Joe: hell yeah I am. Why should I wear those black, uncomfortable shoes. I hate those things. These tennis shoes are much better.
Michael: I think the uniforms are just to give us a sense of team
Joe: Yeah, I get that...but, let's be honest, we aren't really working together, right? I mean, teamwork isn't a necessity to complete the mission they have for us, right?
Michael: Well, I'm not sure...
Joe: I mean, yeah, if someone gets injured, like they were telling us in the talk today, we should build them a splint or a stretcher and get 4 people to help drag them or whatever they were saying
Michael: Yeah
Joe: but, that's just common sense, right? I mean, if I was at Ruby Tuesday and some lady fell over, I'd help her out. They aren't telling us anything that's really specific to our mission or anything...it's just kind of like a "help each other out if needed" type thing. And, we should all be old enough to know that by now...
Michael: Did you hear that Kurtz guy asking about food rations
Joe: HAHA! Yeah. two things. One, he's like 300 pounds and has AIDS, I didn't know that was possible and two, does he not understand that we won't be spending much time in enemy territory...this is a "one and done" mission
Michael: yeah

Joe lit another cigarette. Man, these are good, he thought. 

Michael: I'd say that those smokes are gonna kill you but...
Joe: HA! man, I smoked the whole time I was in the Marines
Michael: really?
Joe: Yep, and not just cigarettes.
Michael: Oh really? You never popped on a piss test
Joe: No, I did. I caught a page 11 for it. 
Michael: Ah
Joe: They brought in the Air Force drug-sniffing dogs once. Tore the barracks up. I remember being so scared because I had a pipe in my jean pocket. The dog sniffed me and just kept going. Had to have been a training dog or something. I had so much resin on that pipe...Oh man! 
Michael: I never smoked Marijuana
Joe: Yeah, I figured

Joe and Michael both laughed. 

Joe: I bet I could get us some out here on the rez. Or maybe some peyote
Michael: Not sure this is the best time to start experimenting
Joe: HA, yeah. Didn't they say something about a group happy hour tonight? Kick off the weekend or something?
Michael: yeah, an open bar I think they said. I think they said a dance floor too.
Joe: wow, what a sight that will be...
Michael: why is that?
Joe: Dancing on death's doorstep
Michael: yeah

The party that night was pretty subdued by anyone's standard. At least half of the group went to their cubes for the night. The half that remained just sort of milled around and nursed a few beers. Joe would come inside long enough to grab a beer and then head back out. The army had setup some picnic tables outside the gym and Joe sat out there and watched the locals milling around outside the gym. The locals couldn't get within 50 yards of the gym as the army had put up a fence, complete with concertina wire, around the gymnasium. On a normal evening at the rez, the boys would be here playing pickup basketball. Now, they stood at the outskirts of the gym, waiting to catch a glimpse of what went on inside. Tonight was an abnormal night because not only were they catching a lot of glimpses inside, it appeared as if there was a nightclub inside the gym. Some old white guy was sitting on a picnic table drinking a beer. When Joe was sufficient lubricated, he ambled over to the teens. Quickly 25 or so of the teenagers gathered at the point that Joe was heading toward

Joe: Hey guys. It must stink not having your gym on a friday night
Teen 1: yeah bro, what are you guys doing in there?
Joe: well, tonight it's an open bar and a dance
Teen 2: A dance?
Joe: yeah. Don't ask me why. We're all broken down and banged up, and they're giving us a dance
Teen 3: Are you a prisoner?
Joe: prisoner? no, why do you think that?
Teen 3: the way they dress you all and this fence around here, you know we thought you guys were prisoners
Joe: Haha. No, believe it or not, we're here of our own volition
Teen 1: What's a volition?
Joe: No, I mean we're all here because we want to be here
Teen 2: so, what are you all doing in there?
Joe: well, it's a dance and open bar
Teen 2: no, I mean during the day. My girlfriends dad said this was a CIA thing
Joe: have you seen us?
Teen 2: no, not really. I see the buses come in once a week, then they go out, and a few hours later another bus comes through. I know they take a bunch of suitcases and stuff out to that field over there after you all leave and burn it.
Joe: Ah, they burn it. I wondered what they did with all that
Teen 2: yeah man, they burn a big bonfire. 
Teen 4: bro, they got my mom cooking food for you guys 
Joe: Oh yeah
Teen 4: yeah, for sure. They pay good money too. 5 dollars a plate. I know she been making 38 plates this week. Is that because there are 38 of you in there?
Joe: yeah, that sounds right
Teen 2: so, what are you guys doing in there during the day?
Joe: well, we are getting ready to go into Afghanistan on a mission
Teen 2: like, what kind of mission? Like a humanitarian mission?
Joe: believe it or not, a combat mission

Joe had to pause while the teens laughed. When Joe explained the program and the mission to the boys, they grew quiet.

Teen 2: So, you're going over there to die
Joe: Yep
Teen 1: It's like you're a jihadist, right?
Joe: Yep
Teen 4: Yo, that is hard core

One of the Army instructors came out to the fence

Instructor: Are you OK sir?
Teen 4: He's fine Mister sir. We're just out here chopping it up
Instructor: Are you OK sir?
Joe: Yep, I'm fine
Instructor: Do you want to come back in?
Joe: Nope, but you can grab me another beer if you want

The Instructor didn't seem to like this response and left without any further talk. Michael wandered out and joined Joe

Michael: Who are your new friends?
Joe: Some of the locals here
Teen 4: Just the poor folk!

The other teens laughed at that. Michael handed Joe a fresh beer and put one hand on the fence to support himself

Teen 4: Yo, are you going over there on suicide mission too?
Michael: Yes
Teen 2: You look like you're CIA
Michael: Nope, just an old engineer
Teen 1: Man, you white folk are crazy, you know that? I guarantee you won't see one of us doing that. 100% no. 
Michael: they give your family 50,000 after you are done?
Teen 4: WHAT? shit, let me send my old man over there right now? HAHAHA
Teen 2: yeah, for real. I send my old man too

The teens all shared who they would like to send over and why. Most of them said their dads, but some were volunteering moms, grandmas, aunts. 

Joe: so, what do you guys do here for fun on the weekend...or, I should say, what do the adults do for fun?
Teen 1: Red shack
Joe: Red shack? is that what you said?
Teen 2: not just for adults either...
Teen 3: Rez bar
Teen 4: cuz, you know, red man drinks, haha
Teen 1: not a place for whitey though
Michael: Why is that?
Teen 1: it's a blood and a bucket bar
Michael: blood and a bucket?
Teen 1: yeah, it means that a lot of people get stabbed or hurt there and they mop up the blood every night
Teen 2: just an average night on the Rez
Joe: ah, i've been to some of those in my younger days
Michael: but only if you're white?
Teen 2: no, not only if you're white...but, being white makes it a much higher possibility
Teen 4: yeah, I would't go there, just saying. You could go off-Rez and into town
Joe: No car or shuttle. We're kinda stuck here
Teen 1: I've got a van if you've got some money
Joe: haha, no money. we left all that with our family. We're on the armies dime
Teen 1: oh, too bad

The two men chatted with the boys for another 30 minutes before heading back in. The party had been dying out since it's start, but it was now on it's last legs. There were only a few left drinking beers and the bartender was cleaning up. The music was some old 70's music, Van Morrison or Allman brothers...the song was familiar but Joe really didn't care who it was. 


Chapter Next

Saturday had been "beer garden" day. The army folks decorated the field behind the gymnasium. The sun had been bright and most of the folks had enjoyed themselves. Sunday, outside of meals, nothing was planned. After breakfast, Joe and Michael walked out front to sit on the picnic tables.

Joe: Man, what a beautiful day.
Michael: yeah, definitely
Joe: Do you have your ID with you?
Michael: I do. Why do you ask?
Joe: I was thinking of taking a walk up to the bar those kids were talking about. Maybe have a beer and then walk back.
Michael: What did they say? A mile and a half up the road?
Joe: yeah, something like that

The high school was at the end of a long road that came in off the highway. The road was littered with trailers, broken down cars, and a few shops that looked like what the people from a last-chance flea market threw out. Somewhere in those shops was the Red Shack bar and grill. No one had ever thought to ask why it was a bar and grill, since there had never been any grill or food services whatsover. The bar served liquor and beer - that was all. There was no glass anywhere in the bar. If you wanted a shot, you got it in a white plastic cup. If you wanted a beer, you got it in a red plastic cup. 

At about the half mile mark of their walk, Joe and Michael approached the first home. The trailer was about 50 feet off the road and had a front porch with an old deck. THe steps leading up to the deck were missing the 3 bottom steps. An old man watched them approach from a ways off. As Michael and Joe grew nearer he hollered out

Old man: C'mon up!
Joe: That's OK, we're heading up to...
Old man: C'mon up. I ain't gonna bite
Joe: Red shack? We're heading to the red shack
Old man: Red shack? that don't open up for another hour. Shoot...they just closed 4 or 5 hours ago. C'mon up!

Joe and Michael walked to the front porch

Old man: around back. You gotta come around back to get out here. Damn kids stole my bottom steps
Michael: we don't have a lot of time
Old man: c'mon up. Just come around back and let yourself in through the sliding door. It's ok...just me here

Joe and Michael walked around back and came in. The house was so dusty. The sun shing through the window lit up bright paths of floating particles, like snow in a snow globe. 

Joe: Hey there
Old man: grab a seat. grab a seat. I don't normally see folks out here on a Sunday
Michael: Thank you sir
Old man: so, what brings you out here on a Sunday. You all coming from the school? Been a shame to have that closed up. I used to see the kids going by here every weekday. Now, all I see are those damn army buses. In and out, in and out...Do you want a beer?
Joe: sure, I could always take a beer
Old man (handing each of them a beer): here you go. So, you all are out there with the army?
Michael: Yes sir.
Old man: I don't know if you can tell me...but, I'll ask. What are you all doing out there?
Joe: they're teaching us how to die
Old man: die? you all need to be taught how to do that?
Joe: no, we're all doing a good job of that. 
Old man: so, what do you mean by that?





<f00 finish this shit out>
D day
the men land and Joe has a change of mind and takes off his vest and attempts to flee. Michael, unbeknownst to joe, follows after. Joe is about to be captured and then Michael comes in and activates his vest, killing them all. Maybe something about Samson...michael was strong until brought low by his illness, he "dies with the philistines".

D day + 1
Simone takes the insurance money and stocks up on supplies and returns to war zone to visit Joe & Michael final resting place and "spread love"
